How do you express your fear to death?

Some people try to make art, to be remembered through their creations, others try to help other
people to be remembered through emotions, and others convince themselves that death is just one
stage, and that there are others after it.

I'm an existentialist agnostic atheist. I know my beliefs might be false, but what I believe is that
there's no way out of death and oblivion. This is quite hopeless. The defeatism makes you freeze in
time for a moment, providing a fake excerpt of the eternity that will come after you disappear.

It doesn't matter how much good or bad you do in the world, material or cognitive. After some time,
the difference it made will shrink to nothing.

Quite nihilist, I agree. If nothing lasts forever, the result will be the same, nothing really
matters. If nothing matters, there can't be any meaningful purpose. My impression is that not a lot
of people is so pessimistic as me, and the denial of those big purposes makes me give more
importance to the small purposes in comparison.

Enjoying the present and planning for the future become more important, because that's the only
thing you can control to certain extent. Most of your life is alredy lived, or not lived yet, and
you can't change your past, so most of your life depend on your current plans for the future. If you
dismiss any planning, you might not even have the chance to enjoy your future present moments.

Transferring conscience to last longer, you say? Your conscience is an instance, an execution of the
program your brain is running. The program can be copied, but not the execution. The execution is
constantly changing, becoming a new one, and dying at the same time. No future invention will save
our minds when our body dies. The structure of our bodies holds our minds, and anything than attemps
to continue your consciousness in another place, is just copying and starting another you in another
place. It might be as real as you are, but it will be a clone, not you.

You can not even be sure that you are the same execution who went to sleep last night. You might be
a modified overwriting copy of the person who was alive in your body yesterday.

And then there's loneliness. We are biological machines that self regulate with emotions. Good
emotions to get closer to things that make you work better, and bad emotions to get away from things
that will make you function worse. But those guidelines are too simple because they have to be quick
to be useful. They are heuristics, they know nothing about the actual outcome of those things they
try to approach or run away from. Sometimes I want to spend time with people. Sometimes I don't. But
if I follow what I feel like and don't get close to people in a couple of weeks I'll feel lonely,
regardless of the fact that it shouldn't be a real problem.

I don't think I'm antisocial, though. Our minds are trapped in a mortal body, living almost outside
of the realm of the physical somehow, impossible to do any other thing than commanding (or
witnessing) our body's actions. I think that the isolation our minds are cursed with, makes us
closer because we are all equally helpless. I'd like to raise this issue more often and would like
it actually worked to put us in concord.

Loneliness. What a bitch. Even though spending time with people is one of those small purposes that
get much bigger for me, sometimes it's not physically possible, and loneliness doesn't care about
impossibilities and drains my energy and motivation, preventing me to use my time alone for other
productive things.

The most important resource in the universe is not matter, nor energy nor space; it's time.

