Some weeks ago there was a conference titled "Question a christian" where
religious people close to science would defend christianism as compatible with
science.

My problem with that kind of stances is that you have to do a shameless
contorsionism. At some point they were defending that the bible is not a
scientific book, so it is unfair to read it expecting literal meanings. Instead,
it is made up of several books with different literary genres, so different
degrees of metaphors are present there.

That's ok, but my problem comes from verses like "Leviticus 20:13": "It’s
disgusting for men to have sex with one another, and those who do will be put to
death, just as they deserve.". There's absolutely no room for interpretation
there. It says homosexuals should be killed.

I asked at the conference if they were comfortable calling themselves christians
when the bible says things like that, and I got 3 answers:

- That is from the old testament, right? Passages like this were written for
  people of thousands of years ago, and you are reading it with today's ethics.
  The new testament is more recent, and accordingly talks more about loving
  everyone.

- There are only a couple of verses that say that, and there are many more that
  talk about loving people.

- You don't need to endorse every part of the bible to call yourself a christian.

Of course, this answers were improvised, so I can not expect logically flawless
answers, but I wanted to state here permanently that those are insufficient
arguments.

The first answer is probably true in a limited sense. Moral standards change
across time. What's good and bad changes, but there are thresholds that make
some things clearly wrong in any moral code. Even if homosexuality was wrong
(it's not! but for the sake of the argument), killing them is wrong under any
reasonable moral code because they are not hurting anyone in any meaningful way.

But that's not what I want to focus on. The second answer was surprising to me.
It basically assesses truth by weight. I never heard this argument. So, if I
have a basket with pears, and I say 10 times that my basket has pears, and 3
times that my basket has apples, would you say I'm right? Ok, you could say I'm
mostly right. But note that some religious people still say homosexuality is
wrong, which is analogous to saying that I have apples, and defending their
claim with the argument that I'm right. I'm NOT right, and even assuming I'm
mostly right, I'm mostly saying the opposite! Of course, if I defend all
possibilities, one of them will be right, but that doesn't say anything about
the validity of my claims. If you can put a screwdriver in different (even in
opposite!) shapes because it bends like jelly, you can not tighten a screw with
it.

And this is related to the third answer, where you can reject some parts of the
ideolody and still call yourself part of it. And I'm happy if you criticise
parts of the ideology, but don't defend the ideas you like with "it's true
because god says so", because god also says the things you reject. What happens
with those? If god said that and they are wrong, you have a problem. Either god
didn't say them (so the bible loses its authority because it was written by
fallible man), or they are actually true and you have to defend things like "1
timothy 2:12": "I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a
man; rather, she is to remain quiet.". Hey, that one is from the new testament,
which is about love and respect! There's the third option where god says false
things on purpose, but that one is a dead end too.

You could say that god is right but says wrong things because that's what we
need to hear at that time. This avoids answering the question. If what god says
is what we need and NOT what is the truth, then you can not defend anything god
says as being true. If anything, you can argue it's useful advice. If you adopt
this position you still have to argue that killing gays and silencing women is
useful.

So let's go back a bit. Let's say the bible was written by men, not god, and it
contains some wrong things, because of people trying to control other people,
but you have to see through that, ignore those bad things, and get the essence
of god's love. You have to decide by yourself if you agree with each command
from the bible (not only the 10 commandments), and then decide which ones you
are going to follow. I'm ok with that. I would be glad if religious people would
do this. But remember that the reasoning to defend things can not be "I believe
this because god says so". It has to come from you: "I defend this because I
analised the consequences and they are the best possible ones".

I would like to finish with a compilation of questionable commands where you
have to decide if you should ignore what god says, or follow them. A good
resource is https://www.biblegateway.com where you can check particular verses
in lots of translations:


# Homosexuality

## Leviticus 20:13

It’s disgusting for men to have sex with one another, and those who do will be
put to death, just as they deserve.

## Leviticus 18:22

You shall not lie with a male as one lies with a female; it is an abomination.

## Romans 1:26-28

For this reason God gave them over to degrading passions; for their women
exchanged the natural function for that which is unnatural, 27 and in the same
way also the men abandoned the natural function of the woman and burned in their
desire toward one another, men with men committing indecent acts and receiving
in their own persons the due penalty of their error. 28 And just as they did not
see fit to acknowledge God any longer, God gave them over to a depraved mind, to
do those things which are not proper. 

## 1 Corinthians 6:9-10

Or do you not know that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Do
not be deceived; neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor
effeminate, nor homosexuals, 10 nor thieves, nor the covetous, nor drunkards,
nor revilers, nor swindlers, shall inherit the kingdom of God.


# Women

## 1 timothy 2:11-15 (context: during prayers or in the church, but still)

11 Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. 12 But I suffer not a
woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. 13
For Adam was first formed, then Eve. 14 And Adam was not deceived, but the woman
being deceived was in the transgression. 15 Notwithstanding she shall be saved
in childbearing, if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with
sobriety.

## Ephesians 5:22-24

22 Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord. 23 For the
husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church: and
he is the saviour of the body. 24 Therefore as the church is subject unto
Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in every thing.

## Leviticus 12:2-5

Speak to the people of Israel, saying, If a woman conceives and bears a male
child, then she shall be unclean seven days. As at the time of her menstruation,
she shall be unclean. And on the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be
circumcised. Then she shall continue for thirty-three days in the blood of her
purifying. She shall not touch anything holy, nor come into the sanctuary, until
the days of her purifying are completed. But if she bears a female child, then
she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her menstruation. And she shall continue
in the blood of her purifying for sixty-six days.


## Leviticus 15:19 and 15:28-30

When a woman has a discharge, and it consists of blood from her body, she
will be unclean because of her menstruation for seven days. Everyone who touches
her will be unclean until evening.

[...]

When she is cured of her discharge, she is to count seven days, and after that
she will be clean. 29 On the eighth day she must take two turtledoves or two
young pigeons and bring them to the priest at the entrance to the tent of
meeting. 30 The priest is to sacrifice one as a sin offering and the other as a
burnt offering. In this way the priest will make atonement for her before the
Lord because of her unclean discharge.

# Sex

## Leviticus 15:13-15

[Discharge here means semen discharge, like while sleeping]

When the man with the discharge has been cured of it, he is to count seven days
for his cleansing, wash his clothes, and bathe his body in fresh water; he will
be clean. He must take two turtledoves or two young pigeons on the eighth
day, come before the Lord at the entrance to the tent of meeting, and give them
to the priest. The priest is to sacrifice them, one as a sin offering and the
other as a burnt offering. In this way the priest will make atonement for him
before the Lord because of his discharge.

# General law

All leviticus could it here, but let's put some concrete ones:

## Leviticus 19:27-28

You are not to cut off the hair at the sides of your head or mar the edge of
your beard. You are not to make gashes on your bodies for the dead or put
tattoo marks on yourselves; I am the Lord.
